CURSH - THE ONLY SHELL THAT EXISTS
a book written by husky

dedicated to my wife and kids
page break

hello and thank you for purchasing my book
please consider donating to my patreon
i made this book with my love for you, my fans!
also i love my enemies too because i was told to by my lawyers.

ok so letz get on with the basics of how to use cursh!
first step is installing it!
that should be pretty sim[ple you think? WRONG!!!!!
you have to do a ton of really complicated stuff to get it to work
in fact, it is actually impossible to install cursh, i have been trolling you!








haha just kidding! april fools!
ok so you need to install it by cloning the github repo
also you might need the readline-devel package (idk what its called on ur repo so find that out yourself please)
ok so you clone the repo and then you go into the repo directory and you have to make a new directory
you csan really call it whatever u like but usually the funny cmake people call it build
then you have to cd into that directory and then you have to run cmake but cause the files are
in the root directory of the repo you have to do cmake ..
then you have to make the program (that is using the make command)
if you don't have make installed, here is a link for it:
https://www.gnu.org/software/make/
(idk how to build it cause normally i'd use the makefile but since make isn't installed that'd be impossible)
ok so now you have to cd into the build directory and then you have to run make
or wait i think we were already in the build directory idk it doesn't matter just run make
ok so now you have compiled the program and you have to run it
although here's a pro tip for make!
you can run make -j4 to compile with 4 threads at once
or you can even run make -j(nproc) to compile with all the cores on your machine
ok so now you have the program compiled and you can run it
do ./cursh and it will run!
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!IMPORTANT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
you cannot use the forward slash in cursh!!!
use backslash only!!!!
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!NO MORE IMPORTANT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
ok so now most importantly you have to make sure that you have a copy of cursh in every directory on your computer
this will ensure that you can run cursh from anywhere, because idk what ur PATH var is
idk if cursh even works with PATH, but i'm too lazy to check
so once you do that, just run cursh whenever you want to use it
it might be helpful to explain how to use cursh
so now you have crush running and you see the prompt it's something like "C:\<directory> is where we do the command:"
this is where you type in commands, so if you want to see the help menu, type help
but actually the help menu just tells you to read this book so that's not very helpful heck
assuming you are here because of that, i'll tell you some useful stuff you can do!
as far as i know, cursh can run the normal unix commands that aren't just the funny ones built into the shell
so i think you should be able to run ls
HOWEVER! don't run ls because it will eventually be removed in favour of the better "dir" command
infact , it might have already been removed by the time this book comes out!
so if you want to see the list of files in the current directory, don't type ls!
instead type dir (:
you can use dir to list any directory you'd like!
if you just run dir without any arguments it will list the current directory
but if you want to list another directory, you can do something like "dir <directory>"
you might eventually need to add the C:\ to the front if it isn't relative, but probably not right now.
check the main.c file to see if this is necessary, or just check the listing of this book.
if it says the word "BANANA" anywhere then that means we have implemented the C:\ change
but yeah also with the dir command, you have to use backslashes like i said earlier
although i doubt you were listening so i have to say this again just to be sure
ok so now you're able to list a directory properly, but that doesn't help you much
you can actually run the command cd to change the directory you're in! how cool!
eventually, i'm also gonna make it so that you can run cd.. like in windows instead of needing the whole cd ..
but that will be implemented along with the "BANANA" update.
ok so now you've ran all these cool commands, but now your screen is probably really messy cause
there's so much stuff on it; one simple solution!
you can clean the screen by using the cls command!
it might take a bit cause it has to clear the screen, but it's pretty cool!
clearly if you've made it this far, you probably love waiting around for things
this probably means you're quite patient!
one thing that patient people will love is the ability to just stop everything from happening, and take a break
for a moment; quite meditative!
you can run the pause command, and it'll make the program pause until you press enter
really relaxing! you can take this time to sit back, maybe get a cup of coffee, or something
ok so of course you can also run the exit command to exit the program, but you really shouldn't do that.
cursh is your friend! not your enemy!
cursh is your life now, you mustn't abandon it!
if you do, you'll regret it.
also you can use pipes just like in bash, but they might be broken so idk
